The general idea of this yet-to-be-named space SRPG is to have an x-com style, turn- and grid-based strategy game set in space. As this game is in space, the units will be small piloted fighters, fitted with a variety of weapons, detection, and shielding. These fighter units will fly around the battlefield, which will change from battle to battle, facing off against enemy fighters of similar composition and possibly greater strength. The main weapons of each force are mighty carriers, the ships that function as both trasporters for small fleets of fighters and long range artillery to deal heavy, if infrequent, damage in battle. In every confrontation, the chief objective will be to survive; if you can wait long enough, your carrier can speed away to a far-off location once its engines have recharged. Of course, if any fighters are off the carrier when it leaves, they will be lost forever. The ideal resolution would be the destruction of the opposing fleet, carrier and all. To do this, your fighters must close on the enemy's carrier and disable it's shields, allowing your carrier to bombard it with its heavy guns, destroying it. Of course, the enemy will also be trying to do this to your carrier as well, and as such you must balance an offensive and defensive strategy, all the while trying to whittle down their numbers to a point where you can push towards their carrier.

In the battles, the various fighters will be able to move a given number of tiles, although they cannot end sharing a tile with another unit nor passing through an enemy unit. Each fighter will have an onboard radar system which, while accurate, can be easily redirected when the ship is far away. Upgrading radar units on various ships can improve this, but there will always be areas in which the enemy can hide. Remember, keeping vision is an important factor to victory. When attacking, there will be two options: manual and auto fire. Manual allows for a wider range of damage, possibly even inflicting a critical hit on your opponent, but it also has a relatively high chance to miss. Auto fire, on the other hand, almost never misses, but does a consistent, and fairly average, amount of damage. This allows for a guaranteed kill when the enemy is low by auto fire, or a desperate roll of the dice when using manual. As these are ships, energy management is yet another component of every battle. Do you want to sacrifice mobility in order to increase the firepower? Or will you cut shields to increase your radar range? This power allocation must be done before any move by that ship in that turn and allows for a sort of dynamic class system.

The carriers have three main systems: weapons, shields, and engines. Engines are the simplest: if active the carrier can, at any time, leave the field of battle after a short charging time. Targting attacks at the engines will eventually disable them, prevent them from leaving. The carrier's shields block an enemy's heavy artillery from damaging the ship itself, but the fighters weapons can penetrate it. Disabling these shields will allow you to bombard the enemy's carrier with the full strength of your arsenal, eventually destroying them. The weapons are obviously the carriers method of dealing damage to both an opposing carrier and to enemy fighters. These will also have the option of manual and auto fire, but this must be decided before a battle begins or else leave the weapons inactive for a period of time. They will only be able to fire infrequently, and while they may shoot at enemy fighters, they aren't very effective as the projectiles are easily dodged by a small mobile craft. Destroying these will yield a carrier unable to fire for the rest of the battle, both making defense more difficult as well as severely lengthing the time it would take to destroy the opposing carrier since it will now depend solely upon the firepower of the small fighters. On each carrier will be a hangar bay, the origin of each fleet of fighters as well as their return point should the need to retreat arise. These have small mounted turrets guarding them which, while much more effective against fighters than the main guns, are much shorter range. These hangars may be destroyed, preventing any launched fighters from returning to their ship in the middle of battle.

Outside of battle, you must use resources gained from destroyed enemy vessels to repair your own ships, to sell to buy new men and equipment, and to research to develop more powerful systems for your forces. You must also plot your course to skirmish with the enemy's armada while defending your allied forces and your territory. Manage your ships inventories, watch their stats increase as they gain skill and experience, and defeat the onslaught of enemy forces.
